# CaptainAmerica

Captain America is a superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by cartoonists Joe Simon and Jack Kirby, the character was first seen in Captain America Comics #1 (cover dated March 1941) from Timely Comics, a predecessor of Marvel Comics. Captain America was designed as a patriotic supersoldier who often fought the Axis powers of World War II and was Timely Comics' most popular character during the wartime period. The popularity of superheroes waned following the war, and the Captain America comic book was then discontinued in 1950, with an upcoming short-lived revival in 1953.
# Captain America Publication information
Publisher: Marvel Comics
First appearance: Captain America Comics #1 (March 1941)
Created by: Joe Simon
            Jack Kirby
# In-story Information
Alter ego: Steven Grant Rogers
Team affiliations: Avengers
                   Avengers Unity Division
                   All-Winners Squad
                   Illuminati
                   Invaders
                   Landau, Luckman, and Lake
                   New Avengers
                   Project: Rebirth
                   Redeemers
                   S.H.I.E.L.D.
                   Secret Avengers
                   Secret Defenders
                   U.S. Army
                   New York City Police Department
                   Partnerships
                   Bucky Barnes
                   Peggy Carter
                   Agent 13
                   Falcon
Notable aliases: Nomad
                 The Captain
                 Spider King
Abilities: Enhanced strength, speed, stamina, durability, agility, reflexes, senses, and mental processing via the super soldier serum
Master martial artist and hand-to-hand combatant, Accelerated healing factor, Immunity to diseases and toxins, Slowed ageing,Master tactician, strategist, and field commander,
Wields Vibranium-steel alloy shield

# About
The character wears a costume bearing an American flag motif, and he utilizes a nearly indestructible shield that he throws as a projectile. Captain America is the alter ego of Steve Rogers, a frail young man enhanced to the peak of human perfection by an experimental serum to aid the United States government's efforts in World War II. Near the end of the war, he was trapped in ice and survived in suspended animation until he was revived in modern times. Although Captain America often struggles to maintain his ideals as a man out of his time, he remains a highly respected figure in his community, which includes becoming the long-time leader of the Avengers.

Captain America was the first Marvel Comics character to appear in media outside comics with the release of the 1944 movie serial, Captain America. Since then, the character has been featured in other films and television series. In the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), the character is portrayed by Chris Evans.

Captain America was ranked sixth on IGN's "Top 100 Comic Book Heroes of All Time" in 2011,[1] second in their list of "The Top 50 Avengers" in 2012,[2] and second in their "Top 25 best Marvel superheroes" list in 2014.[3]

# Publication history
Further information: List of Captain America titles
Creation
In 1940, writer Joe Simon conceived the idea for Captain America and made a sketch of the character in costume.[4] "I wrote the name 'Super American' at the bottom of the page," Simon said in his autobiography, and then decided:

No, it didn't work. There were too many "Supers" around. "Captain America" had a good sound to it. There weren't a lot of captains in comics. It was as easy as that. The boy companion was simply named Bucky, after my friend Bucky Pierson, a star on our high school basketball team.[5]

Simon recalled in his autobiography that Timely Comics publisher Martin Goodman gave him the go-ahead and directed that a Captain America solo comic book series be published as soon as possible. Needing to fill a full comic with primarily one character's stories, Simon did not believe that his regular creative partner, artist Jack Kirby, could handle the workload alone:

I didn't have a lot of objections to putting a crew on the first issue  ... There were two young artists from Connecticut that had made a strong impression on me. Al Avison and Al Gabriele often worked together and were quite successful in adapting their individual styles to each other. Actually, their work was not too far from [that of] Kirby's. If they worked on it, and if one inker tied the three styles together, I believed the final product would emerge as quite uniform. The two Als were eager to join in on the new Captain America book, but Jack Kirby was visibly upset. "You're still number one, Jack," I assured him. "It's just a matter of a quick deadline for the first issue." "I'll make the deadline," Jack promised. "I'll pencil it [all] myself and make the deadline." I hadn't expected this kind of reaction  ... but I acceded to Kirby's wishes and, it turned out, was lucky that I did. There might have been two Als, but there was only one Jack Kirby ... I wrote the first Captain America book with penciled lettering right on the drawing boards, with very rough sketches for figures and backgrounds. Kirby did his thing, building the muscular anatomy, adding ideas and popping up the action as only he could. Then he tightened up the penciled drawings, adding detailed backgrounds, faces and figures."[5]


1974 Comic Art Convention program featuring Simon's original sketch of Captain America
Al Lieberman would ink that first issue, which was lettered by Simon and Kirby's regular letterer, Howard Ferguson.[6]

Simon said Captain America was a consciously political creation; he and Kirby were morally repulsed by the actions of Nazi Germany in the years leading up to the United States' involvement in World War II and felt war was inevitable: "The opponents to the war were all quite well organized. We wanted to have our say too."[7]

# Golden Age
The front page of the first Captain America comic depicts Captain America punching Adolf Hitler in the jaw. A Nazi soldier's bullet deflects from Captain America's shield, while Adolf Hitler falls onto a map of the United States of America and a document reading 'Sabotage plans for U.S.A.'
Captain America Comics #1 (March 1941). Cover art by Joe Simon (inks and pencils) and Jack Kirby (pencils).
Captain America Comics #1 — cover-dated March 1941[8] and on sale December 20, 1940,[9][10] a year before the attack on Pearl Harbor, but a full year into World War II — showed the protagonist punching Nazi leader Adolf Hitler; it sold nearly one million copies.[11] While most readers responded favorably to the comic, some took objection. Simon noted, "When the first issue came out we got a lot of  ... threatening letters and hate mail. Some people really opposed what Cap stood for."[7] The threats, which included menacing groups of people loitering out on the street outside of the offices, proved so serious that police protection was posted with New York Mayor Fiorello La Guardia personally contacting Simon and Kirby to give his support.[12]

Though preceded as a "patriotically themed superhero" by MLJ's The Shield, Captain America immediately became the most prominent and enduring of that wave of superheroes introduced in American comic books prior to and during World War II,[13] as evidenced by the unusual move at the time of premiering the character in his own title instead of an anthology title first. This popularity drew the attention and a complaint from MLJ that the character's triangular shield too closely resembled the chest symbol of their Shield character. In response, Goodman had Simon and Kirby create a distinctive round shield for issue 2, which went on to become an iconic element of the character.[14] With his sidekick Bucky, Captain America faced Nazis, Japanese, and other threats to wartime America and the Allies. Stanley Lieber, now better known as Stan Lee, contributed to the character in issue #3 in the filler text story "Captain America Foils the Traitor's Revenge", which introduced the character's use of his shield as a returning throwing weapon.[15] Captain America soon became Timely's most popular character and even had a fan-club called the "Sentinels of Liberty".[7]

Circulation figures remained close to a million copies per month after the debut issue, which outstripped even the circulation of news magazines such as Time during the period.[13][16] The character was widely imitated by other comics publishers, with around 40 red-white-and-blue patriotic heroes debuting in 1941 alone.[17] After the Simon and Kirby team moved to DC Comics in late 1941, having produced Captain America Comics through issue #10 (January 1942), Al Avison and Syd Shores became regular pencillers of the celebrated title, with one generally inking over the other. The character was featured in All Winners Comics #1–19 (Summer 1941 – Fall 1946), Marvel Mystery Comics #80–84 and #86–92, USA Comics #6–17 (Dec. 1942 – Fall 1945), and All Select Comics #1–10 (Fall 1943 – Summer 1946).

In the post-war era, with the popularity of superheroes fading, Captain America led Timely's first superhero team, the All-Winners Squad, in its two published adventures, in All Winners Comics #19 and #21 (Fall–Winter 1946; there was no issue #20). After Bucky was shot and wounded in a 1948 Captain America story, he was succeeded by Captain America's girlfriend, Betsy Ross, who became the superheroine Golden Girl. Captain America Comics ran until issue #73 (July 1949),[18] at which time the series was retitled Captain America's Weird Tales for two issues,[19] with the finale being a horror/suspense anthology issue with no superheroes.

Atlas Comics attempted to revive its superhero titles when it reintroduced Captain America, along with the original Human Torch and the Sub-Mariner, in Young Men #24 (Dec. 1953). Billed as "Captain America, Commie Smasher!" Captain America appeared during the next year in Young Men #24–28 and Men's Adventures #27–28, as well as in issues #76–78 of an eponymous title. Atlas' attempted superhero revival was a commercial failure,[20] and the character's title was canceled with Captain America #78 (Sept. 1954).

# Silver and Bronze Age
 
Avengers #4 (March 1964). Cover art by Jack Kirby and George Roussos.
In the Human Torch story titled "Captain America" in Marvel Comics' Strange Tales #114 (Nov. 1963),[21] writer-editor Stan Lee and artist and co-plotter Jack Kirby depicted the brash young Fantastic Four member Johnny Storm, the Human Torch, in an exhibition performance with Captain America, described as a legendary World War II and 1950s superhero who has returned after many years of apparent retirement. The 18-page story ends with this Captain America revealed as an impostor: it was actually the villain the Acrobat, a former circus performer the Torch had defeated in Strange Tales #106, who broke two thieves out of jail, hoping to draw the police away while trying to rob the local bank. Afterward, Storm digs out an old comic book in which Captain America is shown to be Steve Rogers. A caption in the final panel says this story was a test to see if readers would like Captain America to return. According to Lee, fan response to the tryout was very enthusiastic.[22]

Captain America was then formally reintroduced in The Avengers #4 (March 1964),[23] which explained that in the final days of World War II, he had fallen from an experimental drone plane into the North Atlantic Ocean and spent decades frozen in a block of ice in a state of suspended animation. The hero found a new generation of readers as leader of that superhero team. Following the success of other Marvel characters introduced during the 1960s, Captain America was recast as a hero "haunted by past memories, and trying to adapt to 1960s society".[24]

After then guest-starring in the feature "Iron Man" in Tales of Suspense #58 (Oct. 1964), Captain America gained his own solo feature in that "split book", beginning the following issue.[25] Issue #63 (March 1965), which retold Captain America's origin, through issue #71 (Nov. 1965) was a period feature set during World War II and co-starred Captain America's Golden Age sidekick, Bucky. Kirby drew all but two of the stories in Tales of Suspense, which became Captain America with #100 (April 1968);[26] Gil Kane and John Romita Sr., each filled in once. Several stories were finished by penciller-inker George Tuska over Kirby layouts, with one finished by Romita Sr. and another by penciller Dick Ayers and inker John Tartaglione. Kirby's regular inkers on the series were Frank Giacoia (as "Frank Ray") and Joe Sinnott, though Don Heck and Golden Age Captain America artist Syd Shores inked one story each.

This series — considered Captain America volume one by comics researchers and historians,[27] following the 1940s Captain America Comics and its 1950s numbering continuation of Tales of Suspense — ended with #454 (Aug. 1996).

This series was almost immediately followed by the 13-issue Captain America vol. 2 (Nov. 1996 – Nov. 1997, part of the "Heroes Reborn" crossover),[28] the 50-issue Captain America vol. 3 (Jan. 1998 – Feb. 2002),[29] the 32-issue Captain America vol. 4 (June 2002 – Dec. 2004),[30] and Captain America vol. 5 (Jan. 2005 – Aug. 2011).[31] Beginning with the 600th overall issue (Aug. 2009), Captain America resumed its original numbering, as if the series numbering had continued uninterrupted after #454.

# Modern Age
As part of the aftermath of Marvel Comics' company-crossover storyline "Civil War", Steve Rogers was ostensibly killed in Captain America vol. 5, #25 (March 2007).

The storyline of Rogers' return began in issue #600.[32][33] Rogers, who was not dead but caroming through time, returned to the present day in the six-issue miniseries Captain America: Reborn (Sept. 2009 – March 2010).[34]

After Rogers' return, Barnes, at Rogers' insistence, continued as Captain America, beginning in the one-shot comic Captain America: Who Will Wield the Shield? (Feb. 2010). While Bucky Barnes continued adventuring in the pages of Captain America, Steve Rogers received his own miniseries (Steve Rogers: Super-Soldier) as well as taking on the leadership position in a new Secret Avengers ongoing series.

Spinoff series included Captain America Sentinel of Liberty (Sept. 1998 – Aug. 1999) and Captain America and the Falcon (May 2004 – June 2005). The 1940s Captain America appeared alongside the 1940s Human Torch and Sub-Mariner in the 12-issue miniseries Avengers/Invaders.[35][36] The 2007 mini-series Captain America: The Chosen, written by David Morrell and penciled by Mitchell Breitweiser, depicts a dying Steve Rogers' final minutes, at S.H.I.E.L.D. headquarters, as his spirit guides James Newman, a young American Marine fighting in Afghanistan. The Chosen is not part of the main Marvel Universe continuity.[37][38]

During the "Two Americas" storyline that ran in issues #602-605, the series drew controversy for the similarity between protesters depicted in the comic and the Tea Party movement. Particularly drawing scorn was a panel of a protester holding sign that read "Tea Bag the Libs Before They Tea Bag You!"[39] Also drawing controversy were remarks made by the Falcon implying that the crowd is racist.[40] In his column on Comic Book Resources, Marvel Comics Editor-in-Chief Joe Quesada apologized for the sign, claiming that it was a mistake, added by the letterer at the last minute.[41]

The character, first as agent Steve Rogers and later after resuming his identity as Captain America, appeared as a regular character throughout the 2010–2013 Avengers series, from issue #1 (July 2010) through its final issue #34 (January 2013). The character appeared as agent Steve Rogers as a regular character in the 2010–2013 Secret Avengers series, from issue #1 (July 2010) through issue #21 (March 2012); the character made guest appearances as Captain America in issues #21.1, #22–23, #35, and the final issue of the series #37 (March 2013).

Marvel stated in May 2011 that Rogers, following the public death of Bucky Barnes in the Fear Itself miniseries, would resume his Captain America identity in a sixth volume of Captain America, by writer Ed Brubaker and artist Steve McNiven.[42][43] The Captain America title continued from issue #620 featuring team up stories with Bucky (#620-#628),[44] Hawkeye (#629-#632),[45] Iron Man (#633–635),[46] Namor (#635.1),[47] and Black Widow (#636-#640),[48] and the title ended its print run with issue #640.

Captain America is a regular character in Uncanny Avengers (2012), beginning with issue #1 as part of Marvel NOW!. Captain America vol. 7 was launched in November 2012 with a January 2013 cover date by writer Rick Remender and artist John Romita Jr..[49]

On July 16, 2014 Marvel Comics announced that the mantle of Captain America would be passed on by Rogers (who in the most recent storyline has been turned into a 90-year-old man) to his long-time ally The Falcon, with the series being relaunched as All-New Captain America.[50]

Marvel announced that Rogers will become Captain America once again in the comic series Captain America: Steve Rogers.[51] This new series follows the events of "Avengers: Standoff!," in which Captain America is restored to his youthful state following an encounter with the sentient Cosmic Cube, Kobik, and his past is drastically rewritten under the instructions of the Red Skull. Afterward, Captain America plots to set himself and Hydra in a position where they can conquer America in Marvel's event "Secret Empire."[52]

# In Movies

The Charcter of Captain America has appeared in several movies which include:

Captain America (1944)
Main article: Captain America (serial)
The 1944 serial Captain America has the main character District Attorney Grant Gardner, who is loosely based on the Marvel character Captain America. His nemesis is the Scarab and his love interest and sidekick is Gail Richards. This version of Captain America does not possess his shield, nor does he seem to have enhanced abilities. Instead, he uses a simple hand gun and does not appear to have any qualms about killing criminals. A major factor is that he is not fighting in World War II, despite the fact that the serial came out in 1944 when the war was still going on, and instead was a typical city vigilante.

3 Dev Adam (1973)
Main article: 3 Dev Adam
Captain America appeared in the 1973 Turkish cult superhero film 3 Dev Adam (3 Giant Men) directed by T. Fikret Uçak and written by Doğan Tamer based on the characters created by Steve Ditko, Jack Kirby, Stan Lee, Joe Simon and Rodolfo Guzmán Huerta, featuring Aytekin Akkaya as Captain America and Yavuz Selekman as Santo called to Istanbul on a special mission to stop the villainous Spider-Man and his criminal gang. The film, which went on nationwide general release across the country on November 1, 1973, was completely unauthorized by the copyright owners of the characters depicted. The film was popular and thus spawned other rip-offs of other major Hollywood productions.

Captain America (1990)
Main article: Captain America (1990 film)
The first feature-length depiction of Captain America was the 1990 film Captain America. Development began when the film rights were purchased by The Cannon Group founders Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus in 1984, with Death Wish helmer Michael Winner to direct.[1] Scripts written by James Silke (Revenge of the Ninja, Sahara), Stan Hey (Auf Wiedersehen, Pet), Stan Lee and Lawrence Block (The Funhouse) were rejected and in 1987, Winner left, replaced by actor-director John Stockwell and a script by Stephen Tolkin.

The final film, produced by Golan's 21st Century Film Corporation, was directed by Albert Pyun and starred Matt Salinger in the title role. It depicted the creation of Captain America from weak soldier Steve Rogers, his fight in World War II and subsequent apparent death, his being found decades later frozen in ice, and his realization and comprehension that our enemies from the war are now our allies, as well as the hero's battle against the Red Skull. The film, intended for theatres, was instead primarily released on home video and was a major critical failure.[2]

Marvel Cinematic Universe
Main article: Steve Rogers (Marvel Cinematic Universe)

Chris Evans as Captain America as depicted in the film, Captain America: The First Avenger
Chris Evans portrayed Steve Rogers in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films Captain America: The First Avenger (2011), The Avengers (2012), Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and Avengers: Endgame (2019).[3][4][5][6][7] Evans makes an uncredited cameo appearance in Ant-Man (2015).[8] Costume designer Anna B. Sheppard stated the Captain America's uniform in Captain America: The First Avenger was partly based on that of paratroopers of the era, explaining, "I think that the challenge of this costume was that it had to look 40s, that's why certain elements like using leather for the straps and belt, metal buckles and not having too tight a fit were important. Forget spandex!"[9] Visual Development Supervisor Ryan Meinerding elaborated, "The straps that come off his chest are very similar to the ALICE webbing that was used in Vietnam. Using the straps as the stripes across his torso then seemed like an elegant design solution. In the end, the main design aspects of this suit are meant to be about making it appear soldier-like, functional and tough."[10]
At the end of Avengers: Endgame, an elderly Steve Rogers gives his shield and the mantle of Captain America to Sam Wilson.[11]
In the 2008 film Iron Man, a replica of Captain America's shield can be seen in Tony Stark's (Robert Downey, Jr.) workshop when JARVIS is removing his armor and Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow) spots him.[12]
In the 2008 film The Incredible Hulk, General Ross (William Hurt) mentions to Emil Blonsky (Tim Roth) that there was a World War II program that created a supersoldier serum. The supersoldier serum is shown as well as Dr. Reinstein referenced as its inventor (in the comics, Dr. Reinstein was a pseudonym for Dr. Erskine to avoid Nazi persecution). Bruce Banner (Edward Norton) was involved in an experiment combining the serum with gamma radiation, which resulted in his transformation into the Hulk. Blonsky is then injected with the serum in order to take on the Hulk, the subsequent combination of the serum and Banner's blood transforming Blonsky into the Abomination.[13][14] In the film's deleted opening, Bruce Banner goes to the Arctic to commit suicide but transforms into the Hulk, smashing a glacier. A buried human figure and shield are visible, who are meant to be Rogers and his shield.[15]
In the 2010 film Iron Man 2, S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Phil Coulson (Clark Gregg) discovers an incomplete replica of Captain America's shield inside a box. When he asks Tony Stark if he knows what it is, Tony tells him that it's "just what I need" and places the Shield underneath his particle collider to level it. There is also a Captain America comic book (which made an appearance in Captain America: The First Avenger) in Howard Stark's crate delivered to Tony from Nick Fury.
The 2013 Marvel One-Shot short film Agent Carter features the exploits of Peggy Carter (Hayley Atwell) one year after the events of Captain America: The First Avenger, and features a flashback of Carter's final communication with Steve Rogers (Chris Evans).[16] The scene was also shown in the first episode of Agent Carter.
In the 2013 film Thor: The Dark World, Chris Evans makes an uncredited cameo appearance[17] as Loki masquerading as Captain America.
Animated
Further information: Marvel Animation
Captain America has been featured in both Ultimate Avengers and Ultimate Avengers 2, an animated direct-to-video series that is an adaptation of the Ultimates produced by Marvel Entertainment and Lions Gate Films, voiced by Justin Gross. The character is based on the Ultimate Captain America and serves as the main protagonist in both films.
In the 2008 direct-to-video film Next Avengers: Heroes of Tomorrow, Captain America and the Black Widow's son, James Rogers, voiced by Noah C. Crawford, is the main protagonist. James is a skilled martial artist like his parents and, by the end of the film, is the de facto leader of the group. He wields a wrist device that projects energy constructs of his fathers shield, but it is destroyed by the Iron Black Widow. James then uses the original shield in the final battle with Ultron. Captain America however was killed by Ultron prior to the events of the film along with the other Avengers (though Vision, Iron Man, and the Hulk are in hiding and Thor is ruler of Asgard).[18]
Captain America appears in the team-up film Iron Man & Captain America: Heroes United, reprised by Roger Craig Smith.[19]
Captain America makes an appearance in Marvel Rising: Secret Warriors, with Roger Craig Smith reprising his role.
Captain America appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes - Black Panther: Trouble in Wakanda, with Roger Craig Smith reprising his role.
Television
1960s

A "Captain America" title card from a segment of the 1966 animated television series The Marvel Super Heroes.
The Marvel Super Heroes (1966): Captain America was one of the five featured superheroes, starring in one "Captain America" segment a week. They were largely straightforward adaptations of not just the character's solo stories from Tales of Suspense, but also several stories from The Avengers series as well.[20][21]

1970s
Captain America appeared in two 1979 live-action television movies that aired on CBS: Captain America, which aired January 19, 1979, and Captain America II: Death Too Soon, which was broadcast on November 23, 1979, both starring Reb Brown in the title role. The character differs significantly from the comics in both his origin and his operations. For instance, Steve Rogers is a character in contemporary times whose father was the original Captain America, a 1940s government agent. The very patriotic attitude of Steve's father earned him the nickname Captain America, and his father is spoken of as having been murdered. Rogers, a former Marine now making a modest living as an artist, was inspired by this story to sketch a super-hero. After receiving potentially fatal injuries in an accident, he was administered an experimental chemical called the FLAG—Full Latent Ability Gain—formula (at one point referred to as a "super-steroid") which not only saves his life but also enhances his body with heightened strength and reflexes. These new abilities lead Dr. Simon Mills (Len Birman), the research biochemist and intelligence official who had told Rogers about his father, to recruit him and give Steve a costume based on his drawing. As Captain America, he also makes significant use of a specialized reconstruction of the van he has been driving, out the rear of which can be launched a modified motorcycle. Its functions include a rocket thrust for a fast start out of the van, a jet boost for increased speed, a setting to allow the bike to be ridden with less noise for stealthier movement and a hang glider structure which can allow the bike to glide to the ground with some forward momentum, although it must be jettisoned upon landing. The bike has a round windshield, described as being made of "Jet-Age plastics," with concentric circles that alternate between red and transparent around a centered star, blue in color. He is able to detach this, and he uses it as his shield when he goes on foot. At the end of the first movie, Rogers briefly appears in his father's costume—more accurately a uniform—that bears a stronger resemblance to the uniform Captain America is seen wearing in the comics, and he wears this uniform in the sequel.[20]
In Captain America II: Death Too Soon, Brown's Steve Rogers is first shown sketching a portrait of a Mrs. Shawn (Susan French), who complains to him about a gang of muggers who have been stealing the proceeds from cashed Social Security checks; she denies having cashed her most recent one. He bids her to do this in order to set a trap for the muggers, and then he springs it as Captain America. In the meantime, a free-lance revolutionary terrorist calling himself General Miguel (Christopher Lee), planning to fight an unspecified war, kidnaps a Professor Ian Ilson (Christopher Cary) and forces him to resume his research in manipulative gerontology. Ilson has managed to formulate both a chemical that accelerates aging and the antidote to the same chemical, and Miguel, posing as the warden of a prison in Oregon near Portland, plans to use the chemicals in question to hold Portland hostage for a multimillion-dollar ransom. Ultimately Brown's Captain America and Lee's General Miguel directly clash face-to-face, and when Miguel throws a glass bottle of the aging accelerant into the air, hoping it will shatter against Captain America's body, the Captain throws his shield into the air, where it shatters the bottle in such a manner that the aging accelerant splashes Miguel instead, aging him literally to death in less than a minute. The telefilm was directed by Ivan Nagy.
Both of these films were released on DVD for the first time together in 2011 from Shout! Factory.

1980s
Spider-Man (1981): Guest-starred in one episode, "The Capture of Captain America".[20] He was voiced by George DiCenzo.
Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends (1981): He appeared in two episodes of this series, "7 Little Superheroes" and "Pawns of the Kingpin",[20] where he was again voiced by DiCenzo.
Captain America also appeared in a 1980 public service announcement on energy conservation, in which he battled the Thermal Thief, the Wattage Waster, and the Cold Air Crook.
1990s
X-Men (1992): Captain America appeared in one episode, "Old Soldiers".[20] He is an American agent, sent along with Canadian agent Wolverine, to rescue a scientist kidnapped by the Red Skull and the Nazis. He is present in the episode only in flashbacks of Wolverine's. Captain America is voiced by Lawrence Bayne, who also provided voices for Cable and Erik the Red in the same series. The Red Skull was voiced by Cedric Smith, who also voiced Professor X throughout the series.[22] Additionally, Captain America appears in a brief cameo in the episode "Red Dawn", before the awakening of his Russian counterpart, Omega Red.
An alternate version of Captain America appeared in the episode "One Man's Worth". In a timeline in which Charles Xavier was murdered before founding the X-Men, Captain America is the leader of a taskforce of superhuman mutant hunters fighting a war against the Mutant Resistance led by Magneto.
Spider-Man (1994): Captain America made a few appearances, where he was voiced by David Hayter:
He first appeared in "The Cat" (Season #4 Ep 43) with a cameo when Peter Parker is narrating a flashback scene with John Hardeski witnessing the experiment that made Steve Rogers into Captain America. The Red Skull makes a cameo as well.
He appeared in the last three episodes of the "Six Forgotten Warriors" saga. The third provides a flashback scene explaining Captain America's disappearance after World War II: he and the Red Skull were trapped in a dimensional machine for the last 50 years. In the last two episodes Captain America is released from the machine (with the Red Skull), and in the final installment he and the Red Skull fight and are, in the end, trapped in the machine once again.
In the "Secret Wars" three-parter, Captain America was one of the heroes Spider-Man selected to lead against the villains, choosing him due to his past experience with the Red Skull.
Captain America was one of several Avengers who made cameo appearances in the second season of the mid-1990s Fantastic Four series.
The Avengers: United They Stand (1999): Captain America appears in one episode, "Command Decision". The story involves the Masters of Evil and a flashback to Captain America defeating Baron Zemo. He was voiced by Dan Chameroy.
In the 1995 Iron Man animated series episode "Distant Boundaries", when Tony seems troubled by his actions, Julia Carpenter reminds him he's not Captain America.
In the 1990s, a planned Captain America animated series from Saban Entertainment to air on Fox Kids proposed that Captain America's true name was Tommy Tompkins, with "Steve Rogers" being a cover name assigned to him by the U.S. Army. The Red Skull would appear as the main antagonist. The series was cancelled in preproduction with scripts written, characters designed and a one-minute pitch film produced, because of Marvel's bankruptcy.
2000s
X-Men: Evolution (2000): Captain America and Nick Fury appear in one episode, "Operation Rebirth". In this episode, Captain America is made into the super soldier during World War II through the use of a stasis tank chamber called "Operation Rebirth", similar to the comics. He gains incredible physical prowess much like his comic book counterpart, but at a hefty price; a defect in the process causes eventual cellular breakdown, forcing Captain America to be put into stasis until a cure can be found. During World War II, he participates in a joint operation with the Canadian soldier Logan to liberate a POW camp, where he saves a boy named Erik Lehnsherr, the future Magneto. When he begins to break down, he and Logan destroy Project Rebirth's stasis tank so that no one else will have to suffer through his condition. Logan later learns that another one was made and subsequently stolen by Magneto, as it has a fountain of youth-like effect on mutants. The episode ends with Wolverine visiting Captain America's stasis chamber, telling his old comrade that they will find a cure for his condition eventually, and also assuring him that they made a great team in their time.
Captain America appears in The Super Hero Squad Show voiced by Tom Kenny.[26] In this show he is seen as a leader who will often go rambling about the 1930s and 1940s, and occasionally even forgets he is no longer in the 1940s ("If that's Roosevelt calling, tell him I'm not here"). He also has a militaristic attitude and frequently shouts "Hup, hup, hup!"
In Iron Man: Armored Adventures, Captain America is frequently referenced. In "Ghosts in the Machine" a class is seen being taught about Captain America who participated in three public battles in World War 2. A picture of Captain America is seen as well. In "Extremist" S.H.I.E.L.D. was mentioned to have recovered Captain America.
2010s
Captain America appeared in the first episode of the animated series Black Panther, voiced by Adrian Pasdar. He traveled to Wakanda during World War II in search of Nazi invaders, facing T'Challa/the Black Panther's father, T'Chaka.
Captain America is featured in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes, voiced by Brian Bloom.[27][28] His frozen body is initially found and thawed out by the Avengers in the episode "Living Legend", and he joins the team at the end of the episode. At the end of the first-season finale, "A Day Unlike Any Other", Captain America is captured and replaced by a Skrull. In season two of episode "Prisoner of War", Captain America was held captive in the Skrull ship for two months, after which Captain America freed and helps others captive to escape from the Skrull ship. In the episode "Secret Invasion", Captain America returns to Earth and assists the Avengers in battling the Skrulls. In "Code Red", Iron Man officially makes Captain America the leader.
Captain America appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes: Maximum Overload, voiced by Roger Craig Smith.
Captain America appears in the Toei anime series Marvel Disk Wars: The Avengers.[29]
Captain America appears in the television special Lego Marvel Super Heroes: Avengers Reassembled, voiced again by Roger Craig Smith.[30]
Captain America is mentioned in the 2011 episode, "Ghost in the Machine" of Iron Man: Armored Adventures on a history test Tony Stark takes.
Captain America appears in the anime series Marvel Future Avengers, voiced by Kazuhiro Nakaya in Japanese and Roger Craig Smith in English.
Marvel Animation
Captain America appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode "Not a Toy" voiced by Roger Craig Smith.[31] He joins forces with Spider-Man to retrieve his shield from Doctor Doom to stop him from analyzing and replicating the unique vibranium-adamantium alloy properties of in the shield. He has a brief cameo in the episode "Guardians of the Galaxy", where he is voiced by Chris Cox.
Captain America appears in Avengers Assemble, voiced once again by Roger Craig Smith. Matthew Mercer was supposed to take over the role in Season 3, but instead Smith maintained it. In the first episode, Captain America is apparently destroyed by his enemy Red Skull, but it is then revealed that Red Skull captured him so he could body switch with Captain America, since he was dying and needed to switch bodies with him because of the super-soldier serum in him worked. Captain America then rejoins the team after Red Skull's defeat.
Captain America appears the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H., voiced again by Roger Craig Smith. He has made a brief cameo appearance in the episode "Monsters No More". He later reappears in "Guardians of the Galaxy" along with the Avengers being Skrulls in disguise. In "Days of Future Smash: Year of the Hydra", He appeared in the past fighting alongside a time-traveling Hulk during World War II to stop The Leader and Red Skull from recreating Dr. Erskine's super soldier serum and augmenting it with gamma radiation. Simultaneously in an alternate future timeline, Captain America fights to save the world as it was taken over by Hydra and run by The Leader. In this timeline, Captain America was never frozen but despite being in his late nineties, the super soldier serum in his body appeared to retard his aging, still in peak physical condition and appearing only in his mid/late forties. Ultimately, Hulk and past-Captain America stop The Leader, returning the timeline to its original settings.
Captain America appears in the Guardians of the Galaxy episodes "Stayin' Alive" and "Evolution Rock", voiced again by Roger Craig Smith.
Captain America appears in the Spider-Man episode, “School of Hard Knocks”, voiced again by Roger Craig Smith.
Marvel Cinematic Universe
The Marvel Cinematic Universe version of Captain America briefly appears via stock footage in the pilot episode of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. In November 2013, Jed Whedon, the co-creator of the television series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., said that there were plans to reference events from Captain America: The Winter Soldier in the show.In March 2014, a promotional logo for Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. surfaced which features an image of Captain America's shield,[37] teasing the series of episodes dubbed "Uprising".
In late April 2016, ahead of the release of the Captain America: Civil War film and the new season of Agent Carter, ABC aired an official Marvel documentary entitled Captain America: 75 Heroic Years, exploring Captain America's history and featuring Chris Evans, Stan Lee, Steve Engelhardt and more.[39]
Captain America was referenced several times in Jessica Jones for his involvement in the Battle of New York. In Episode 5, "AKA The Sandwich Saved Me," a child can be seen running around in a Captain America costume.
